# The Rise of Surveillance Capitalism


Even though surveillance capitalism sounds like an abstract concept that is far away from our daily life, Zuboff's talk has pointed out that such phenomenon is pretty common in real life. Large companies like Google can achieve near-monopolies in data access by their huge user bases, and they use these data to develop their models to predict trend or for other purpose, attracting more users and then getting more data. So it's like an endless cycle and the social inequality will increasingly worse. The gap between such large companies and other companies will become wider and wider. However, it is not all about the negative effect or inequality as Zuboff says, the users can also get benefit from these data. For example, there is a website named AI experiment containing plenty of projects using AI, such as Autodraw. The user need to draw the first line of the object and the AI will finish the rest part. In this process, the user can experience AI in a quite interesting way and Google can collect data about drawing at the same time. I also use this website a lot last semester to get inspiration on my project for AI Arts course. Thus, it is possible to achieve win-win relationship.

What I'm concerned about is the privacy of our data and our rights to protect our data from being randomly used by the companies. To be honest, I don't think we as the users have the right to keep our data. Every time I set up an account for a new application, I need to click the "agree" button to use it and sometimes it is unnecessary to give my data to the application. For example, almost every application wants to have access to my phone calls and contact, even the beauty camera. And what comes next is nuisance calls and text messages with lots of advertisement. Also, it is obvious that there are plenty of data transaction among various applications on our phones.If I mention a singer in WeChat, I might see a post related to this singer in Weibo. I should feel creepy and I did have the feeling at first. But now it's not a big deal for me, since it has become a common phenomenon which everyone is experiencing. However, being common doesn't mean it should work in this way. It is urgent to develop laws to regulate the collection on users data and draw a red line between public and privacy.
