# Crystal's assignment for week 04
## *Examples:*
**Tmall**
Tmall is an application for online shopping. Recently, this application has been accused of VIP price bias. The regular users need to pay more to get VIP and sometimes  to get the same product compared with the new users(even though they have already got the VIP). The difference on prices is based on the data about the use duration and frequency from Tmall's statistic, and even financial situation from other applications such as Alipay. Tmall Connects this information and display higher prices to the "rich" customers and display lower prices or more red packet for the new or frugal customer.
 **Palantir**
 This is an application on national security business technically based on data analysis. Generally, it collects data first, such as the consumption record of knives, hammer and other items, or the travel records. These data can be collected from the camera and applications such as Uber. The next step is to connect the data and speculate the possible future criminal behavior and then take control.
  **Netease Music**
  It is a music application which is popular in China. One of the reasons for its popularity is its accurate recommendation function. This application can collect and analyse users' data and get the result of their preference on language, type and artists of the music. This function can help the users explore new songs but it also reduces the opportunities for the users to try new styles and types of songs.
## *Thoughts*
*The Minority Report* is really attractive for me, especially the contradiction on crime prediction system. For me, the system is a good method to nip crime in the bud. However, it is hard to define crime in the system. What if there's possibility that the target crime won't happen in the future because it is just a fleeting thought but not a real action. Also, how to choose from the major and minor prediction is also a problem to solve, since the majority doesn't mean right and there are so much uncertainty to change the future.

Similar concerns and issues also exist in this era. Big data and its analysis can do a part of job as the prophets in that fiction. However, here comes the problem. According to the second article on New York Times, the big data collects from the collective or the majority, so that it is proper to reflect the general tendency or average characteristics. However, every individual can be totally different from others, it is difficult to use the big data to predict the future possible action of a person accurately. There is so much uncertainty and changes in real life. Also, even all the data is collected from the target person, the connection of the information can cause different results. But it doesn't mean we cannot use big date to help predict something. It is proper to raise the suspect based on the data way far from the average, even though how to define "way far" is hard to say these days. Unlike the action in *The Minority Report*, people cannot only rely on the result from the prophets or the algorithms, they need to combine the close observation on the reality to get the specific information and then decide to act or not. The observation on the reality somehow can be the data tracked from the daily application such as WeChat, Alipay, Uber and Taobao. 
