#Response to *Seeing Like a State* and Cambridge Analytica

I used to think that the application of uses' data will only influence the advertisement or other commercial area. However, the case of Cambridge Analytica has reminded me that the leak of big data will also be used to manipulate political event, like president campaign, which actually has stronger effect on people's daily life in a different way. Actually, I'm not quite sure whether the model that can predict the personality based on users' data and their records on facebook really has a great effect on the result of the president campaign. On the one hand, the model or programme has only 30 percent correct rate of predicting users' personality. On the other hand, the vote is affect by various factors, so it is hard to say the voters changed their initial option and then vote for Trump is mainly decided by the target advertisement.

Even though it is hard to make conclusion on whether the application of facebook users' data affects political event, it is kind of illegal to get this data not for academic purpose but for political and commercial use. And Facebook had required Kogan to delete the data after using it to build programme, but he kept using this data to affect campaign. So, it actually set an alarm for the tech companies to protect their users' data from leaking and being used for otehr purpose.

Another interesting point is that, at first, Kogan only got 270 thousand users' facebook data by offering 5 dollars reward. However, as the news reported, the actual leak covered 50 million users data. It is because the rest of data is actually the data of 270 thousand users' friends' data. So here comes the belonging issue of "friend data". Luckily, Facebook has already limited the sharing of user's friend data (profile), which influence the development of some programs on Facebook but actually protect user's data.
