#Right to be forgotten#
In the past, if a person did something wrong with a great effect, people would learn about it through newspaper and other traditional media. But the public would probably forget about it after a long time, and it is hard to find the newspaper if they wanted to check again. However, in this digital era, searching engines like Google has shortened the time to get such information and make it way easier. All the users need to do is simply inputting the name of that person, and there will be related posts to display the records. This development lets more and more people get the access to this kind of data, and makes it easier to keep it. And the effect on employment and other aspects will remain for a longer time, even longer than the person's life. So, for me the question is whether this kind of data owns the right to be forgotten by the public, not by the police department or governmental institution. Because it is necessary for the police office to keep these criminal record to keep safe.

One possible way to deal with public records is to narrow down the number of people or organizations that have access to the data, which relies on the establish of related rules or laws. People or companies who want to get access to the public data need to state the reasons and show the required documents to support their reasons. Also, it is important to regulate data and information on the website, especially in the case of mixed true and false data. The management of websites needs to clarify rumors and prevent information leakage in a timely manner.

Of course there are a lot of difficulties, one of which is how to define whose data can be forgotten and whose cannot. Since the crime is complex. Each case has different background, influence and each criminal has different characteristics and motivation. It is hard to set the filter for these records. Also, it is hard to clarify what kind of people or organizations can have the access to the data and how to check the files or documentation they provide.

#The End of Privacy As We Know It#
The system of ClearView really freaks me out. It's horrible that someone can get my information on social media by taking a photo of me and uploading this photo to the application.
I admit that Clearview has played a huge role in improving the efficiency of solving criminal cases by facial recognation and huge database, and it helps a lot on the society safety. However, the large database of individual's privacy itself is the potential factor of promoting crimes. Even though it is the government that has the access to the data, there's still possibility of the leakage of private data, let alone the commercial companies. Once the hackers have the access to the data, and use it to track someone and then do something bad or even criminal, it will be far more dangerous since data can be easily shared and quickly spread.

The most problematic part is that anyone can get the access to the posts on social media, and we know nothing about who owns our data and what his or her intention is. Because there is no certain rules or laws to limit the access to the data, and it is hard to distinguish publicity and privacy of these posts on Facebook or Twitter. Besides, the more data the ClearView has, the risker it will be. Therefore, it is necessary for the government to restrict the expansion of ClearView's database and keep an eye on the system. I don't think selling this data to companies is a good idea, even though it is profitable. But I'm not sure ClearView will stop doing that and abandon the huge profit. Lastly, the social media and cloud database should protect user's data from being stolen for the purpose of crime.
